Hello again and this section will learn about the basics of SVGA and how to combine SVGA with D-3 to
create some simple data visualizations.
In this video we'll compare and contrast raster and vector graphics and we'll create SPG elements in
the DOM.
We'll also draw lines using SVGA and create groups of SVGA elements in the next video will draw rectangles
polygons and circles and SPG.
Then we'll write text on SPG.
After that we'll talk about patho elements and SPG finally we'll turn our attention back to D-3 and
use it to draw a bar chart on an SVGA element.
So let's get into it.
SVGA stands for scalable vector graphics.
Before we dig into what SVGA is good for lets first understand what the term actually means when you're
dealing with graphics on a computer.
There are two different types vector graphics and raster graphics.
The fundamental building block of a raster image is the pixel many common image formats include GIF
JPEG and DNG are raster based vector graphics.
On the other end use lines and curves as their fundamental building blocks.
The biggest difference between raster and vector graphics has to do with their behavior under scaling.
If you zoom in on a raster edge you're increasing the size of the pixels so the image becomes pixilated
and grainy.
Vector graphics however can be scaled without any degradation in quality SVGA is a markup language based
on SNL that allows us to draw vector graphics in HD.
Now the Mozilla Developer Network summarizes it well in their article on SVGA by saying that SVGA is
essentially two graphics.
What HDMI is to text.
The most important element to know and working with SMBG is the SVGA element itself.
You can create an SVGA with the SVGA tag.
It's a best practice to include some metadata about the version and SML namespace attributes.
You can also set the width and height as attributes or by using CSSA to keep things simple for our SVGA
examples.
I'll be using code pen to code along.
Check out this Copen link in the code and notice that RSV has a 1 pixel border.
Just to help visualize it inside of the SPG.
There are a number of elements you can use to help draw images.
We'll start with just a few of the most common ones.
First let's draw a line.
A line is determined by four points.
The x and y coordinates of its starting position and the x and y coordinates of its ending position.
These are denoted x1.
Y one X to and y to.
Nothing showing up.
It may not look like it but the line element is there.
The issue is that by default lines have no width to make the line visible.
We need to set the stroke width.
We can also set the color with the stroke attribute.
Cool.
There's our line.
If you look carefully at the line you might notice something strange.
Our line starts at 100 100 and goes to 700 350.
If you draw this line in a high school math class it would have a positive slope but the line in our
SMBG slopes downward to understand why the line slopes down.
We need to understand how coordinate work in SVGA.
Typically when you graph things in a math class positive numbers increase from left to right along the
x axis and from bottom to top along the y axis.
But with G the y axis is reversed values increase as you go down.
Not as you go up.
Put another way in math class.
The point with coordinates 0 0 is typically in the lower left corner of the coordinate system by SMBG.
This point is in the upper left corner.
As you move to the right the first coordinate increases and as you move down the second coordinate increases.
The fact that the y axis is flipped can be a little confusing but D-3 has functionality that will allow
us to flip the y axis back to the orientation you may be more comfortable with.
For now we'll live with it.
Let's draw another line to form an X.
Now that we've got this X on the SVGA we may want to think of the two lines not as independent pieces
but as a group that forms a single x.
If you want to take this approach you can wrap both lines in a g element g Sanch for group.
The advantage to this is that you can set certain attributes or bits of functionality at the group level
instead of duplicating the attributes for each element of the group.
In this example we can move the stroke and stroke with settings to the Gtech.
You can also move the style rules to CSSA if you like.
Those are the basics of SVGA and the next video will talk about some other commonly used SVGA elements
Assia their.